<!-- index.md {% comment %}
*****************************************************************************************
*                            WARNING: DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE                             *
*                                                                                       *
* This file is generated by SUSHI. Any edits you make to this file will be overwritten. *
*                                                                                       *
* To change the contents of this file, edit the original source file at:                *
* ig-data\input\pagecontent\index.md                                                    *
*****************************************************************************************
{% endcomment %} -->
### Introduction
#### Vision
Improve care management across settings/systems for patients via subscription-based push notifications.

### Introduction
This Implementation Guide outlines policy, technical, and process requirements for Implementers of the Push Notifications Use Case, under the terms of the Carequality Connected Agreement (CCA), and their Carequality Connections (CCs), under the Carequality Connection Terms.

Currently, patients access healthcare services and products and non-health services in a fragmented way across multiple organizations and geographic jurisdictions. This information gap at the moment of making clinical or service assessments presents challenges to ensuring that delivered care is effective, safe, and necessary. Sharing information about care decisions and treatments, unmet service needs, and eligibility for services empowers multi-sector teams to better organize patient care activities that improve outcomes in the context of patient preference and to ensure delivery of high-value care across siloed systems. Electronic access to care needs, and the ability to update care plan information using real-time notifications enables patients, families, caregivers, and health and service providers to efficiently communicate and coordinate their efforts. Making Communicating electronic updates allows clinical teams and ancillary service providers to collaborate seamlessly as they deliver comprehensive, patient-centered care and services, addressing the spectrum of needs over time and across all settings, including provision of non-medical services that improve compliance with treatment plans. Higher quality information of up-to-date patient needs, service eligibility and availability, and care needs can reduce medical errors and unnecessary tests, and lead to better quality of care and improved patient outcomes. Payers will generate cost savings will be generated by providing treatment in accordance with documented patient preferences and best clinical practices, increase efficiencies in care delivery and communication across healthcare settings, a reduction in the duplication of medical tests and procedures, and better monitoring of value-based payment arrangements.

Many individuals, especially those with multiple chronic conditions or disabilities, and those facing circumstances of social disadvantage, will benefit from coordination among their healthcare providers and the social and ancillary health service organizations who are assisting on their journey to improved health and well-being (e.g., transportation, housing, nutrition, early childhood programs). Likewise, many new payment and care delivery models require information about an individual’s care and social or ancillary service needs that should be shared electronically, with payers, providers, social/ancillary organizations, and with patients themselves, and their approved caregivers. Seamless sharing of notifications about patients, their healthcare events, and their broader plan of care including ancillary unmet service needs between and among care and service providers, is essential to delivering appropriate services that improve the well-being of individuals.

Carequality is ideally suited to bring added value beyond simple point-to-point notification services, and can instead enable by enabling stakeholders to implement consistent approaches to notifications that are only possible at a national, cross-platform, multi-service scale. This value is realized through supporting members in their efforts to standardize approaches to address the complexities of notifications delivered across state and other types of jurisdictions, supplying decision support when clinical events occur and supplying that information in an actionable way in alignment with advanced reimbursement models.

The Carequality framework can be leveraged to support notifications when those involved in the patient’s care are affiliated with many different organizations, and use many different systems or applications. These notifications are designed to support all relevant individuals in learning about care events, health status, and social and ancillary service availability in real time, giving a person’s extended care team—including health plan care coordinators assisting efficient benefit information and payment authorizations—the information they need about a person to improve health outcomes.

The Carequality and its community of member organizations have collaborated to define exactly how notifications can be shared across different health and service sectors so that members have confidence in their capability to commit to implementing consistent notification services. This Guide covers technical specifications as well as policy and process requirements for Push Notifications


#### Goals
* Remove the need to poll for solicited:
  *  High-frequency events.
  *  High-urgency events.
* Ensure a “low bar” for server and client implementation.
* Consider security, confidentiality, and scale during design.
* **NOT focused on unsolicited notifications**
* Project results may be useful as a building block or launching point

Subscriptions are system to system and the receiver of these subscriptions (Subscription Server or subscriber) must be able to route these messages to the appropriate end user (clinician(s), care team members, etc.) within their system. For auditing purposes, identification of a specific user is accomplished through FHIR authorizations as described in the Carequality FHIR Implementation Guide through SMART on FHIR or OAuth.


### Definitions
#### Topic
* Is a well-defined event and can be specialized to an environment (e.g., an acute admit versus an ED admit): ‘admission’, ‘discharge’, ‘gap in care', etc.
* Implementers (Notification Generators) choose which Topics to support.

#### Subscription
* Is a request for notifications based on a one or more Topics.  The end date is required and is a maximum of two years, without renewal.

#### Notification
* Is a simple FHIR  bundle containing only the Subscription Status (a resource including the Topic code and notification count) and FullURL of the relevant resource created

#### Security Notes
* It is beyond the scope of this project to define security and authentication procedures. Please see the Carequality FHIR Implementation Guide at [LINK] for details on Registration and Authorization.
* Notification Recipient and Notification Generators MUST follow all Carequality FHIR Implementation Guide steps for registration and authentication prior to any posting of subscription requests or sending notifications.
